feat(docs): add starport types doc (#1852)
tendermint/starport: docs/kb/types.md

---
order: 14
description: Starport scaffolding types
---

# Starport scaffolding types

Starport can support different types, like a number, string, bool, etc. This document shows all current types supported into the `starport`.

## Built-in Types

| Type         | Alias    | Code Type   | Description                      |
| ------------ | -------- | ----------- | -------------------------------- |
| string       | -        | string      | Text type                        |
| array.string | strings  | []string    | List of text type                |
| bool         | -        | bool        | Boolean type                     |
| int          | -        | int32       | Integer numbers                  |
| array.int    | ints     | []int32     | List of integer numbers          |
| uint         | -        | uint64      | Unsigned integer numbers         |
| array.uint   | uints    | []uint64    | List of unsigned integer numbers |

> | coin         | -        | sdk.Coin    | Cosmos-sdk coin type             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| coin         | -        | sdk.Coin    | Cosmos-SDK coin type             |
```

> | array.coin   | coins    | sdk.Coins   | List of Cosmos-sdk coin type     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| array.coin   | coins    | sdk.Coins   | List of Cosmos-SDK coin type     |
```

## Custom Type Scaffold

> Starport gives the to use custom field scaffolded before into the chain. The developer can create a `list` type called `user` and use this type in the next scaffold type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starport allows to use previously scaffolded fields. The developer can create a `list` type called `user` and use this type in the next scaffold type.
```

### Scaffolding

> We will scaffold a new `Coordinator` type to be reusable in the future:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We scaffold a new `Coordinator` type to be reusable in the future:
```

```shell

> starport scaffold list coordinator address:string id:uint --no-message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
starport scaffold list coordinator address:string --no-message
```

Id is inherent to list

```
Now we can scaffold a message using the `Coordinator` type:
```shell

> starport scaffold message blocks owner:Coordinator approve:bool

Reviewer: I don't know if it's the best example. In this case, it can be ambiguous because you would preferably just pass the coordinator ID to the message.

I think the best usage of custom type is nested types. I would just show a command
```
starport s type CoordinatorDescription ...
starport s list Coordinator desc:CoordinatorDescription
```
WDYT?

---
order: 6
description: Reference list of supported types. 
---

# Starport Supported Types

Types with CRUD operations are scaffolded with the `starport scaffold` command. 

## Built-in Types

| Type         | Alias    | Index | Code Type   | Description                     |
| ------------ | -------- | ----- | ----------- | ------------------------------- |
| string       | -        | yes   | string      | Text type                       |
| array.string | strings  | no    | []string    | List of text type               |
| bool         | -        | yes   | bool        | Boolean type                    |
| int          | -        | yes   | int32       | Integer type                    |
| array.int    | ints     | no    | []int32     | List of integers types          |
| uint         | -        | yes   | uint64      | Unsigned integer type           |
| array.uint   | uints    | no    | []uint64    | List of unsigned integers types |
| coin         | -        | no    | sdk.Coin    | Cosmos SDK coin type            |
| array.coin   | coins    | no    | sdk.Coins   | List of Cosmos SDK coin types   |

> You cannot use some types as an index, like the map and list indexes and module params.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Map, list indexes, and module params cannot be used as an index.
```

Reviewer 2: @Pantani let's be clear on which types can be used as an index (the command descriptions maybe?) or is this good?

Author: I added it to the table. There is a section called `Index`
